Unit 11 Submission File: Network Security Homework
Part 1: Review Questions
Security Control Types
The concept of defense in depth can be broken down into three different security control types. Identify the security control type of each set of defense tactics.
Walls, bollards, fences, guard dogs, cameras, and lighting are what type of security control?

 Answer: Physical


Security awareness programs, BYOD policies, and ethical hiring practices are what type of security control?

 Answer: Administrative


Encryption, biometric fingerprint readers, firewalls, endpoint security, and intrusion detection systems are what type of security control?

 Answer: Technical


Intrusion Detection and Attack indicators
What's the difference between an IDS and an IPS?

 Answer: IDS detects while IPS detects and reacts.


What's the difference between an Indicator of Attack and an Indicator of Compromise?

 Answer: Indicator of Attack is an indicator of malicious actions while Indicator of Compromise is reactive to a successful cyber attack.






The Cyber Kill Chain
Name each of the seven stages for the Cyber Kill chain and provide a brief example of each.
Stage 1: Reconnaissance: Conducting a in-depth research on its target to identify its vulnerabilities


Stage 2: Weaponization: Creating a malware weapon like a virus, worm or such in order to exploit the vulnerabilities of the target.


Stage 3: Delivery: Refers to the attack vectors used to deliver malicious payloads


Stage 4: Exploitation: The exploitation triggers the intruders’ code


Stage 5: Installation: Implies the attacker has an active exploit running on the target system


Stage 6: Command and Control: Compromised hosts communicate to an outside server to establish command & control channel.


Stage 7: Intruders can take action to achieve their original objectives. This is typically a violation of either confidentiality, integrity, or availability or a combination.


Snort Rule Analysis
Use the Snort rule to answer the following questions:
Snort Rule #1
alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET any -> $HOME_NET 5800:5820 (msg:"ET SCAN Potential VNC Scan 5800-5820"; flags:S,12; threshold: type both, track by_src, count 5, seconds 60; reference:url,doc.emergingthreats.net/2002910; classtype:attempted-recon; sid:2002910; rev:5; metadata:created_at 2010_07_30, updated_at 2010_07_30;)
Break down the Sort Rule header and explain what is happening.

 Answer: Send an alert. The rule applies to all TCP packets from the $EXTERNAL_NET source traffic going the direction of $HOME_NET using ports 5800 to 5820


What stage of the Cyber Kill Chain does this alert violate?

 Answer: Reconnaissance


What kind of attack is indicated?

 Answer: Attacks on ports 5800 to 5820






Snort Rule #2
alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET $HTTP_PORTS -> $HOME_NET any (msg:"ET POLICY PE EXE or DLL Windows file download HTTP"; flow:established,to_client; flowbits:isnotset,ET.http.binary; flowbits:isnotset,ET.INFO.WindowsUpdate; file_data; content:"MZ"; within:2; byte_jump:4,58,relative,little; content:"PE|00 00|"; distance:-64; within:4; flowbits:set,ET.http.binary; metadata: former_category POLICY; reference:url,doc.emergingthreats.net/bin/view/Main/2018959; classtype:policy-violation; sid:2018959; rev:4; metadata:created_at 2014_08_19, updated_at 2017_02_01;)
Break down the Sort Rule header and explain what is happening.

 Answer: Send an alert. The rule applies to all TCP packets from the $EXTERNAL_NET using $HTTP_PORTS source traffic going the direction of $HOME_NET


What stage of the Cyber Kill Chain does the alerted activity violate?

 Answer: Installation


What kind of attack is indicated?

 Answer: Threat of EXE or DLL file download.


Snort Rule #3
Your turn! Write a Snort rule that alerts when traffic is detected inbound on port 4444 to the local network on any port. Be sure to include the msg in the Rule Option.

 Answer: alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET any -> $HOME_NET 4444 {msg: “TCP Packet Detected port 4444”;}




Part 2: "Drop Zone" Lab
Log into the Azure firewalld machine
Log in using the following credentials:
Username: sysadmin
Password: cybersecurity
Uninstall ufw
Before getting started, you should verify that you do not have any instances of ufw running. This will avoid conflicts with your firewalld service. This also ensures that firewalld will be your default firewall.
Run the command that removes any running instance of ufw.

 $ sudo apt remove ufw
Enable and start firewalld
By default, these service should be running. If not, then run the following commands:
Run the commands that enable and start firewalld upon boots and reboots.

$ sudo systemctl enable firewalld
$ sudo systemctl start firewalld

 Note: This will ensure that firewalld remains active after each reboot.


Confirm that the service is running.
Run the command that checks whether or not the firewalld service is up and running.

 $ sudo systemctl status firewalld




List all firewall rules currently configured.
Next, lists all currently configured firewall rules. This will give you a good idea of what's currently configured and save you time in the long run by not doing double work.
Run the command that lists all currently configured firewall rules:

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --list-all


Take note of what Zones and settings are configured. You many need to remove unneeded services and settings.


List all supported service types that can be enabled.
Run the command that lists all currently supported services to see if the service you need is available

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --get-services


We can see that the Home and Drop Zones are created by default.


Zone Views
Run the command that lists all currently configured zones.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --get-active-zones


We can see that the Public and Drop Zones are created by default. Therefore, we will need to create Zones for Web, Sales, and Mail.


Create Zones for Web, Sales and Mail.
Run the commands that creates Web, Sales and Mail zones.

$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --new-zone=web
$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --new-zone=sales
$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --new-zone=mail





Set the zones to their designated interfaces:
Run the commands that sets your eth interfaces to your zones.


$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --change-interface=eth0
$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=web --change-interface=eth1
$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=sales --change-interface=eth2
$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=mail --change-interface=eth3



Add services to the active zones:
Run the commands that add services to the public zone, the web zone, the sales zone, and the mail zone.


Public:

$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=http
$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=https
$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=smtp
$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=pop3


Web:

$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=web --add-service=http
$ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --permanent --zone=web --add-source= 201.45.34.126


Sales

 $sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=sales --add-service=https
 $sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=sales --add-source= 201.45.15.48



Mail

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=mail --add-service=smtp
 $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=mail --add-service=pop3
 $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=mail --add-source= 201.45.105.12


What is the status of http, https, smtp and pop3?



Add your adversaries to the Drop Zone.
Run the command that will add all current and any future blacklisted IPs to the Drop Zone.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-source={10.208.56.23,135.95.103.76,76.34.169.118}

Make rules permanent then reload them:
It's good practice to ensure that your firewalld installation remains nailed up and retains its services across reboots. This ensure that the network remains secured after unplanned outages such as power failures.
Run the command that reloads the firewalld configurations and writes it to memory

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --runtime-to-permanent


View active Zones
Now, we'll want to provide truncated listings of all currently active zones. This a good time to verify your zone settings.
	$ sudo firewall-cmd --get-active-zones
Run the command that displays all zone services.


 $ sudo firewall-cmd --list-all-zones







Block an IP address
Use a rich-rule that blocks the IP address 138.138.0.3.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-rich-rule='rule family="ipv4" source address="138.138.0.3" reject'






Block Ping/ICMP Requests
Harden your network against ping scans by blocking icmp ehco replies.
Run the command that blocks pings and icmp requests in your public zone.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-icmp-block=echo-reply --add-icmp-block=echo-request


Rule Check
Now that you've set up your brand new firewalld installation, it's time to verify that all of the settings have taken effect.
Run the command that lists all of the rule settings. Do one command at a time for each zone.

$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --list-all
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=mail --list-all
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=sales --list-all
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=web --list-all
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=drop --list-all


Are all of our rules in place? If not, then go back and make the necessary modifications before checking again.


Congratulations! You have successfully configured and deployed a fully comprehensive firewalld installation.

Part 3: IDS, IPS, DiD and Firewalls
Now, we will work on another lab. Before you start, complete the following review questions.
IDS vs. IPS Systems
Name and define two ways an IDS connects to a network.

 Answer 1: Network Tap - A hardware device that provides access to a network. Transits both inbound and outbound data streams on separate channels, so all data will arrive at the monitoring device in real time.

 Answer 2:  SPAN - Sends a mirror image of all network data to another physical port, where the packets can be captured analyzed



Describe how an IPS connects to a network.

Answer: Physically connects inline with the flow of data, typically placed in between the firewall and the network switch.


What type of IDS compares patterns of traffic to predefined signatures and is unable to detect Zero-Day attacks?

 Answer: Signature-based


Which type of IDS is beneficial for detecting all suspicious traffic that deviates from the well-known baseline and is excellent at detecting when an attacker probes or sweeps a network?

 Answer: Anomaly-based


Defense in Depth
For each of the following scenarios, provide the layer of Defense in Depth that applies:


A criminal hacker tailgates an employee through an exterior door into a secured facility, explaining that they forgot their badge at home.

 Answer: Perimeter


A zero-day goes undetected by antivirus software.

 Answer: Application


A criminal successfully gains access to HR’s database.

 Answer: Data


A criminal hacker exploits a vulnerability within an operating system.

 Answer: Host


A hacktivist organization successfully performs a DDoS attack, taking down a government website.

 Answer: Network


Data is classified at the wrong classification level.

 Answer: Policy


A state sponsored hacker group successfully firewalked an organization to produce a list of active services on an email server.

 Answer: Network


Name one method of protecting data-at-rest from being readable on hard drive.

 Answer: Encryption


Name one method to protect data-in-transit.

 Answer: VPN or using an encrypted connection.


What technology could provide law enforcement with the ability to track and recover a stolen laptop.

 Answer: GPS


How could you prevent an attacker from booting a stolen laptop using an external hard drive?

 Answer: Disable booting from external media in BIOS and using a BIOS password


Firewall Architectures and Methodologies
Which type of firewall verifies the three-way TCP handshake? TCP handshake checks are designed to ensure that session packets are from legitimate sources.
Answer: Circuit-Level Gateway Firewall
Which type of firewall considers the connection as a whole? Meaning, instead of looking at only individual packets, these firewalls look at whole streams of packets at one time.
Answer: Stateful Firewall
Which type of firewall intercepts all traffic prior to being forwarded to its final destination. In a sense, these firewalls act on behalf of the recipient by ensuring the traffic is safe prior to forwarding it?
Answer: Application or Proxy Firewalls
Which type of firewall examines data within a packet as it progresses through a network interface by examining source and destination IP address, port number, and packet type- all without opening the packet to inspect its contents?
Answer: Stateless Firewall
Which type of firewall filters based solely on source and destination MAC address?
Answer: MAC Layer Filtering Firewall
Bonus Lab: "Green Eggs & SPAM"
In this activity, you will target spam, uncover its whereabouts, and attempt to discover the intent of the attacker.
You will assume the role of a Jr. Security administrator working for the Department of Technology for the State of California.


As a junior administrator, your primary role is to perform the initial triage of alert data: the initial investigation and analysis followed by an escalation of high priority alerts to senior incident handlers for further review.


You will work as part of a Computer and Incident Response Team (CIRT), responsible for compiling Threat Intelligence as part of your incident report.


Threat Intelligence Card
Note: Log into the Security Onion VM and use the following Indicator of Attack to complete this portion of the homework.
Locate the following Indicator of Attack in Sguil based off of the following:
Source IP/Port: 188.124.9.56:80
Destination Address/Port: 192.168.3.35:1035
Event Message: ET TROJAN JS/Nemucod.M.gen downloading EXE payload
Answer the following:
What was the indicator of an attack?


Hint: What do the details of the reveal?
Answer: ET TROJAN JS/Nemucod.M.gen downloading EXE payload. “GET /40.exe HTTP/1.1 200 OK”, an unauthorized file download.


What was the adversarial motivation (purpose of attack)?

 Answer: Italian spam campaign using JS/Nemucod downloader. Have the user download a Trojan file to download Gozi infostealer. Theft of private sensitive data


Describe observations and indicators that may be related to the perpetrators of the intrusion. Categorize your insights according to the appropriate stage of the cyber kill chain, as structured in the following table.


TTP
Example
Findings
Reconnaissance
How did they attacker locate the victim?
Through email exposure.
Weaponization
What was it that was downloaded?
A JavaScript called JS/Nemucod, which is attached directly to the emails inside a ZIP file.
Delivery
How was it downloaded?
Attached directly to the SPAM emails inside a ZIP file.
Exploitation
What does the exploit do?
To save an executable file to the temporary folder and to run it. This leads to Nemucod to open a legitimate PDF file used as a decoy .pdf file
Installation
How is the exploit installed?
A JavaScript file then downloads a EXE file which runs in the background through the WScript.Shell Active X control. A decoy PDF is opened. 
Command & Control (C2)
How does the attacker gain control of the remote machine?
Reboots the computer
Actions on Objectives
What does the software that the attacker sent do to complete it's tasks?
The executable file downloads a Trojan Downloader which downloads Gozi infostealer.



Answer:
What are your recommended mitigation strategies?

 Answer: Educate users on security awareness regarding malicious emails and suspicious attachments.


List your third-party references.

 Answer: certego.net/en/news/italian-spam-compaigns-using-ks-nemucod-downloader/

